Add additional clarifying details to documentation guide (in developer's guide) (#1315)
alan-turing-institute/sktime: docs/source/developer_guide/documentation.rst

`NumPy docstring format <https://numpydoc.readthedocs.io/en/latest/format.html>`.

To ensure docstrings meet expectations, sktime uses a combination of validations built into numpydoc_,

> pydocstyle_ (set to the NumPy convention) pre-commit checks and automated testing of docstring examples to ensure

Reviewer: ```suggestion
pydocstyle_ (set to the NumPy convention), pre-commit checks and automated testing of docstring examples to ensure
```

Author: I've accepted most of the other checks, but here I"m referencing pydocstyle as one of the pre-commit checks rather than pydocstyle separate from the pre-commit checks.

Reviewer: maybe move "(set to the NumPy convention)" so it is after "pre-commit checks"?

Author: I'm fine with that.

the code runs without error. However, the automated docstring validation in pydocstyle_ only covers basic formatting.
Passing these tests is necessary to meet the sktime docstring conventions, but is not sufficient for doing so.

To ensure docstrings meet sktime's conventions, developers are expected to check their docstrings against numpydoc_
and sktime conventions and :ref:`reviewer's <reviewer_guide_doc>` are expected to also focus feedback on docstring
quality.

> 
> sktime Specific Conventions
> ---------------------------

Reviewer: I think it would be good to highlight some good examples. Something like this:
```suggestion

Examples of Good Docstrings
-----------------------------
To help you understand the docstring specifications, here are a few good examples:

* add link to boss classification
* add link to theta forecaster
* add link to something else which is considered good

sktime Specific Conventions
---------------------------
```

Author: I've gone back and forth whether to link specific docstrings here or create an example. 

Upside of linking specific docstrings is that we don't have to generate an example. Downside is that we need to keep an eye on the linked docstrings so we don't end up linking to docstrings that get messed up, etc. 

I'm leaning toward including the direct links for simplicity. What does everyone else think?

Reviewer 2: I would say linking is fine

Author: I've added a section on this as suggested.

Beyond basic NumPy docstring formatting conventions, developers should focus on:

> - Ensuring all parameters (classes, functions, methods) and attributes (classes) are documented completely and consistantly

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Ensuring all parameters (classes, functions, methods) and attributes (classes) are documented completely and consistently
```

The extended summary should also include links to relevant content in the :ref:`glossary` and :ref:`user guide <user_guide>`.

If a "term" already exists in the glossary and the developer wants to link it directly they can use:

.. code-block::

    :term:`the glossary term`

In other cases you'll want to use different phrasing but link to an existing glossary term, and the developer can use:

.. code-block::

    :term:`the link text <the glossary term>`

In the event a term is not already in the glossary, developers should add the term to the glossary (sktime/docs/source/glossary.rst) and include a reference (as shown above)
to the added term.

Likewise, a developer can link to a particular area of the user guide by including an explicit cross-reference and following the steps for referencing in Sphinx
(see the helpful description on `Sphinx cross-references <https://docs.readthedocs.io/en/stable/guides/cross-referencing-with-sphinx.html>`_ posted by Read the Docs).
Again developers are encouraged to add important content to the user guide and link to it if it does not already exist.

> See Also

Author: Thanks Svea! Pushed a commit to fix.

~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

> As is typicaly the summary should be a single line, followed by a properly somewhat longer (and properly formatted) extended summary.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The summary should be a single line, followed by a (properly formatted) extended summary.
```
Making line more succinct, I hope.

> The extended summary should include a user friendly explanation of the code artificats functionality,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The extended summary should include a user friendly explanation of the code artifacts functionality.
```

> For all sktime estimators and other code artifacts that implement an algorithms (e.g. performance metrics),

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For all sktime estimators and other code artifacts that implement an algorithm (e.g. performance metrics),
```

> the extended summary should also include a short, user-friendly synopsis of the algorithm being implemented. When the algorithm is implemented

Reviewer: ```suggestion
the extended summary should include a short, user-friendly synopsis of the algorithm being implemented. When the algorithm is implemented
```

The notes section can include several types of information, including:

- Mathematical details of a code object or other important implementation details (using ..math or :math:`` functionality)
- Links to alternative implementations of the code artifact that are external to ``sktime`` (e.g. the Java implementation of a sktime time series classifier)
- state changing methods (sktime estimator classes)

References
~~~~~~~~~~

sktime estimators that implement a concrete algorithm should generally include citations to the original research article, textbook or other resource
that describes the algorithm.

> Where applicable this should be done by providing a link between the description where the reference is applicable (say in the extended summary or notes)
> and the references section.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```suggestion
This should be done by adding references into this references section, and then linking to these in other parts of the docstring.
```
Trying to make sentence clearer

> Linked references should follow a very specific format to ensure they render correctly. Note the space between the ".." and opening bracket below,
> as well as the space after the closing bracket. Also note that all lines after the first line should start so they are aligned immediately with the

Reviewer: Slight adjustment to wording, which makes it clearer in my view.
```suggestion
The references should follow a very specific format to ensure they render correctly. See the example below. Note the space between the ".."
and opening bracket, the space after the closing bracket, and how all the lines after the first line are aligned immediately with the
```

opening bracket. Additional references should be added in exactly the same way, but the number enclosed in the bracket should be incremented.

.. code-block:: rst

    .. [1] Some research article, link or other type of citation.
       Long references wrap onto multiple lines, but you need to
       indent them so they start aligned with opening bracket on first line.

> Assuming a reference like shown above was added in the references section, the reference labeled as "[1]" above can
> be linked elsewhere in the same docstring using "[1]_". In some cases the rendering may not show correctly if a the "[1]_" link is
> preceded or followed by certain characters. If you run into this issue, try putting  a space before and following the "[1]_" cross-reference.

Reviewer: Again, trying to make it clearer/more concise.
```suggestion
To link to the reference labeled as "[1]", you use "[1]_". This only works within the same docstring. Sometimes this is not rendered correctly if the "[1]_" link is
preceded or followed by certain characters. If you run into this issue, try putting a space before and following the "[1]_" link.
```
